Installation instructions (for experienced users)
-------------------------------------------------

This section documents how to build Sesame. 

Prerequisites
..............

Building Sesame requires
 * `Python <http://python.org>`_ 3.4 or above,
 * `SciPy <http://scipy.org>`_ 0.9 or newer,
 * `LAPACK <http://netlib.org/lapack/>`_ and `BLAS <http://netlib.org/blas/>`_,
   (other options are the free `OpenBLAS
   <http://xianyi.github.com/OpenBLAS/>`_ or the nonfree `MKL
   <http://software.intel.com/en-us/intel-mkl>`_ can be used.)

The following software is highly recommended though not strictly required:
 * `Matplotlib <http://matplotlib.sourceforge.net/>`_ 1.1 or newer, for Sesame's
   plotting routines. Matplotlib is required when using the graphical interface
   of Sesame.
 * `MUMPS <http://graal.ens-lyon.fr/MUMPS/>`_, a sparse linear algebra library
   that will in many cases speed up Sesame several times and reduce the memory
   footprint.  (Sesame uses only the sequential, single core version
   of MUMPS.  The advantages due to MUMPS as used by Sesame are thus independent
   of the number of CPU cores of the machine on which Sesame runs.)
 * An environment which allows to compile Python extensions written in C,
   C++ and Fortran.

The graphical user interface requires `PyQt5
<https://riverbankcomputing.com/software/pyqt/intro>`_.

For users with no python installation, a convenient standalone installation which automatically includes all of the requisiste libraries and packages is `Anaconda <https://www.anaconda.com/>`_ .

Sesame may be downloaded from https://github.com/usnistgov

Generic instructions
.....................
Standard build and install
++++++++++++++++++++++++++
Sesame can be built  and installed following the `usual Python conventions
<http://docs.python.org/install/index.html>`_ by running the following commands
in the root directory of the Sesame distribution::

    python setup.py build
    python setup.py install

Depending on your system, you might have to run the second command with
administrator privileges. The installation
step can be done locally either by using the ``--user`` prefix::

    python setup.py install --user

or by specifying the location where to install the package files with
``--prefix=/path/of/directory``.

The tutorial examples can be found in the directory ``examples`` inside the root
directory of the Sesame source distribution.


Build configuration
+++++++++++++++++++

The setup script of Sesame parses the file ``setup.cfg`` in the root directory
of the distribution to know if the graphical user interface should be installed,
and whether or not to link Sesame against the MUMPS library.

The graphical user interface will be installed if ``use = True`` in the ``GUI``
section. The default is to install it (use ``use = False`` to avoid install).
The ``mumps`` section provides the paths to relevant directories where MUMPS is
installed.  By default this section is commented out and MUMPS is not used.

Building the documentation
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++

To build the documentation, the `Sphinx documentation generator
<http://sphinx.pocoo.org/>`_ is required (version 1.4 or newer) with ``numpydoc``
extension (version 0.5 or newer), and Latex.

HTML documentation is built by entering the ``doc`` sub-directory of the Sesame
package and executing ``make html``. Open the file ``index.html`` in the
directory ``build/html`` with a web browser to access the documentation. PDF
documentation is generated by executing ``make latex`` followed by ``make
latexpdf``. The pdf file is generated in ``build/latex``.

Because of some quirks of how Sphinx works, it might be necessary to execute
``make clean`` between building HTML and PDF documentation.  If this is not
done, Sphinx may mistakenly use PNG files for PDF output or other problems may
appear.

As an alternative if ``make`` is not available, the HTML documentation can be built
using the command from the root directory::

    python setup.py build_sphinx

The documentation is produced in ``doc/build/html``. To build the PDF file::

    python setup.py build_sphinx -b latex
    cd doc/build/latex
    make all-pdf

The resulting PDF is produced in ``doc/build/latex``.

Hints for specific platforms
.............................

Unix-like systems (GNU/Linux)
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Sesame should run on all recent Unix-like systems.  

1. Install the required packages.  

2. Inside the Sesame source distribution's root directory run ::

       python setup.py build
       sudo python setup.py install

Run ``python setup.py --help install`` for installation options.


Microsoft Windows
+++++++++++++++++++
The generic installation instructions given above also apply on Windows.
However, since the only recommended way to compile Python extensions on Windows
is using Visual C++, we are not able to provide guidelines as to how to build
with the MUMPS library.

